what does the textuAL SCHOLAR EXPECT OF INFORMATION SCIENCE?

Those whose work requires them to navigate the treacherous waters
between documents and texts know well that the study of text is always
an exercise in modelling. Information science. except perhaps when it
is not purely about engineering, is above all about modelling and the
manipulation of abstractions. This is why I consider its intellectual
home to be within the Humanities, and why the Humanities have
repeatedly appropriated its methods, even without always thoroughly
understanding them.  My talk explores what textual scholars expect
from information technology, as a way of attempting to show the common
ground between the disciplines."

* me

My ideas about what the humanities are or should be were formed during a distant epoch: the end of the 1960s. And my ideas about what computer sciebce might or should be were formed during one that feels even more remote : the end of the 1970s. (And yet the hunanities of the 1960s seems somehow closer to tat of tiodat than the compscu of the 1970s). 

In the hunanities, in my field of englit at oxfrd, a big debate in the 60s was about whether or not works of lit shd or could be considered independebtly of ant considern iof their historical context; a related byut more nuyanced debate centred on whether the aurtghor's intention (as far as this could be determined( was more important the readers' perceptions. At Oxfird, the long standing tradition of empricial skepticism, meant that either position could be sustained, while the other could be regarded as intentionalist fallacy or affective fallacy. However, speaking for myself, I have always been interested in studying how people have read and reconstructed literary text than in the traditiinal theory which equates great literature with high culture, the tradition  assciated with thinkers like arnold in the 19c abd leavis in the 20th, which continues even today in some obscure corners such as the new republuican. 


ideas of modelling in compsci:
- data modelling in the business model
- logic programming
- relational databases
- uml?
- xml modelling
- conceptual modelling
- topic modelling

"Digital Library of Information Science and Technology (DLIST) is a cross-institutional, subject-based, open access digital archive for the Information Sciences, including Archives and Records Management, Library and Information Science, Information Systems, Digital Curation, Museum Informatics, records management and other critical information infrastructures. The archive can be used for new materials as well as for classics such as the The Five Laws of Library Science 1931, Ranganathan, S. R"

" As for "information science" I think I owe the discipline a great
deal (though I was a reluctant recruit). The term "information
science" brings to mind all the advantages of on-line ordering before
a visit to the British Library (say), and (from home) easy access to
bibliographical and biographical information when preparing a book or
essay ms for the press. I've regularly used Google to track down
unattributed quotations which might otherwise have taken me ages to
locate; I also use the electronic databases ECCO and EBO, although I
think the interfaces and general tractability have some way to go. (I
have colleagues who confess that the research they do, given where
they are doing it from, would be impossible without these on-line
tools, though, of course, you need an academic affiliation to make use
of them.) I ought to add, I think, the sheer convenience of being able
to assemble large and complex texts--such as editions--electronically,
where relevant information comes to hand over a period of time. I only
wish word-processing had been available when I completed my Ph.D. in
1979, but those were the days of snowpaint and corrections by scissors
and glue (and then, of course, a re-type). The other advantage of
creating critical texts via the wordprocessor is easy experimentation
with different forms of words, so that the thinking process and the
writing process are much more closely integrated, at least at the
local level, although I sometimes stick to a long-hand first draft to
get the overall run of the thought, which can then be
refined. Finally, I assume that without information science there
could be no email, and without email I think that academic exchange as
we know it might grind to a halt. I've just (almost) finished
co-authoring/co-editing a volume with a colleague at Plymouth
University who I've neither seen nor spoken to for years. Email has
vastly simplified the task of working together."

